High in this video we're going to take a look at an application of lambdas in Seoul.
So first of all I want to point out that Python has a method for sorting called sorted we can look at
it and it basically is a method that gets called a function that takes in an admirable.
So you can supply a list you can supply a dictionary but because a dictionary is iterable you can specify
a set or you can specify it topple whatever thing you want.
That's iterable a straight even.
And it will then return a list.
It's always going to return a list and it's going to contain all the items from the iterable in a ascending
order based on whatever the natural ordering is.
So if you're dealing with numbers it's going to use numerical ordering.
If you're dealing with strings it's going to do a lexicographical ordering.
So it kind of depends on what you're looking at if you have a custom type that you've built.
You may want to you know specify what ordering means and looks like for your particular class.
So let's take a look at some examples.
Let's start with a list that's going to contain some numbers let's say 1 5 4 10 9 5 while we get 5 already
I don't want to do double but let's do that.
And we can solve the slowest.
And remember it's not going to do in place.
Solving this isn't solving L.
It's going to solve Albert return a new thing else will be unaffected.
So here's the sorted list.
L is still what it was originally.
So I just want to point out that sort of is not an in-place sort.
OK.
So that's how sort it works.
But you'll notice that it has a key word only argument comes after that stuff over here has a keyword
only argument that defaults to none.
Now what is that.
Well that's used to change the way in which items are ordered.
And it does that essentially by applying a function.
So this key has to be a function that will then get applied to each element in the iterable.
And so each iterable element will have an associated value.
That's the result of the function being evaluated and the sort is going to happen based on that value
they're not on the actual iterable item itself.
So let's see an example let's see what I mean by that.
So let's start with another list and let's put in some character so see and maybe capital B then we'll
put a capital D and then we'll put a lowercase a k.
So those are strings.
Now we can solve that we can say sort of the L and that returns this list which is odd because capital
B comes before a.
That to us that's not necessarily you know doing a dictionary ordering because while B doesn't come
before a should come after a.
But remember what's happening here is that capital B is a character and lowercase A is also a character
but they each have a character code.
And we can see what the code is by looking at this.
We can call this function called only which is the ordinal.
So we can look at the ordinal of all the character code of a which is 97.
We took an ASCII table.
That's essentially what it is as a character code of 97 in the ASCII table.
We can also look now at the character code of let's say capital A.
All the character code of capital is 65.
So when you do lexicographical ordering the capital letters actually precede the lower case letters.
And that's why this list is sorted this way where the capital letters actually came first.
They were ordered correctly became before D and little H came before little C right.
Lowercase a came before lowercase c.
So that's correct within the uppercase and lowercase.
But of course you know because lowercase and uppercase characters are not the same characters they have
different character codes.
The Oldring is going to be affected.
So in this case we might want to be able to do an ordering that is case insensitive.
In other words it's not going to care whether we're looking at a lower case or uppercase B.
So how would we do that.
Well we can do it again using that key.
What we're going to do is that to every element in this list L we're going to associate another element
that we're going to use to sort by.
And that element is going to be we can pick I'm going to pick the uppercase version of each one.
So basically we're going to sort each element based on its uppercase value.
So how would we do that.
Well we'd say so with.
We again want to say what else are sort of L but the key now is going to be something that transforms
each element to its uppercase equivalent.
So we're going to do Alamdar for that again.
So Lamda that's going to take some element let's call it s and it's going to calculate and return as
the upper.
Right.
So now the associated value of each element in the list is going to be the uppercase version of that
element.
And so when we do that now we get our case insensitive sold right here.
So that's another example of where we'd use Alamdar.
So I'm going to stick to the Soledad method because that's you know kind of a very typical way of using
lambdas.
So let's take a look at some more examples.
While we're at it to see how sort of works.
Now we might look at a dictionary.
So let's look at a dictionary.
Let's say the F is 300 ABC the key AVC.
Whoops I guess I should try and keep my quotes consistent.
ABC will be 200.
And G.H. I will be 100 let's say.
OK.
So now if we look at D we have ABC 200 300 G H I.
One hundred.
Again we're not guaranteed of the order in which this is being displayed since this isn't an ordered
kind of iterable but we can iterate it if you remember what happens when it read the dictionary.
Put me in deep print please.
We are iterating the keys.
Right.
So if we iterate a dictionary we get the keys back.
So this means we can actually solve it.
And if we call Soledad on D What do we get back.
Well we get a list Remember we always get a list back of what of the keys that have been sorted.
Right.
So here when we iterated through the dictionary we got diethyl then ABC then VHI but we print we got
it so ordered right.
And again lexicographical ordering.
OK.
Well that's great but what happens if we want to sort this dictionary not by the key but by the value
we still want to return the keys.
But we want to return the keys in order of a sending a associated value right.
Well we can do that again pretty easily using key equals.
And here we're going to say lambda and now we're going to take an element let's say e right let's call
it.
That's what iterating in the dictionary.
But what do we want to use.
Well we're going to want to use the value right.
So how are we going to get the value for the key.
Remember this is the key that's being iterated.
So we're going to take the dictionary.
We're going to look at the value that's at that key.
Right.
So instead of sorting by the key itself we're now going to sort by the keys value and by default it's
an ending so old and I go right by
my lambda expression correctly.
Right.
So we're going to get take an element which is going to be a key because it ran through a dictionary
and we're going to look at the value associated with that key in that dictionary.
So when we run that we now get G.H. A B C D F and as you can see shy had a value of 100.
ABC had a value of 200 and DCF had a value of 300.
Hence why I came back in that order.
Next we can look at something else.
Maybe we want to sort a list of complex numbers and we want to solve these complex numbers based on
their distance from the origin.
Right.
It's just going to be the Euclidean distance so it's going to be the square root of the real path squared
plus the imaginary count squared.
So let's try that.
Let's see how we might do this.
So first I might actually define a function.
I just want to show you that you don't have to use a lambda.
By the way in the solid method.
So let's do that.
Let's create something that's the distance.
Now I'm not actually going to use distance.
I'm going to use distance squared.
I don't need in order to do the ordering.
I don't need to actually take the square root.
Right.
Because square root retains ordering of numbers.
So if A is greater than B then squirreled away is greater than the square root of b cos I'm assuming
positive numbers since we don't have one or we do have a square root of negative numbers the complex
numbers.
But in this case we're looking at distances.
So they're always going to be positive numbers.
So in order to do the ordering I don't really need to go to the extra step of calculating the square
root so I'm just going to admit that.
And so here what we are doing to return we can return x real right.
The real part of x squared plus the imaginary part of x squared.
Right that's our distance.
So if we look at the distance squared of let's say one plus one PI right or one j.
Right.
One plus one J is a distance of 1 and 1 in the real and imaginary axes.
So it's the square root of two.
So the distance squared would be two.
And that's indeed what we get 2.0 anyways.
So that's how we can find the distance of a imaginary number from the origin.
So now let's go ahead and create a list that's got some numbers in it.
So let's say we're going to take three plus T.J. one minus one J will take 0 which is just at the origin
itself and maybe we'll just take a pure real number as well which is just 3.
So we have that.
Now if we try and do.
Well that's not going to work.
Complex Numbers do not have a built in ordering in Python.
So if we do that can tell us hey the less than is not supported between instances of complex and complex.
While you're right there's nothing there's no Oldring defined for complex numbers.
So here we are going to use again the key we have to use a key in this case.
And the key is just going to be distance rescue.
Right.
That's all we're going to do.
We're going to apply that distance function to each element of that list.
L And so based on that.
And so when we get that we see obviously the one that's closest to the origin is zero.
Right.
Then we had one minus one J.
That's a distance of squared of two three plus zero g.
Well that's going to be a distance of three and then three plus three J is going to be a distance of
the square root of three squared plus three squares.
So 9:09 is 18 square root of 18 right.
So seems like with the Oldring is working correctly.
So here's how we would do it.
Now we don't have to define this function for us right.
I I had to think about this.
Define the function first and then do my sort.
Instead we can do this all in one shot using Alamdar we can say key equals lambda Landers going to take
some element X right.
That's going to be in that list so complex numbers.
And we're just going to use that whatever we have right here is what we're going to use.
I'm going to copy paste that right into here.
And if we run that we get the same result because the lambda was used.
So that's another way of using lambdas in the sort for you can now actually sought elements that don't
have an ordering as long as you associate a function that will give you an ordering for each element.
Let's look at one last example of how we might use sort of.
Let's say I've got a list which contains some strengths so let's go CLI's and then idle then Pailin
or Palin I guess.
Chapman Gilliam and Jones the Monty Python crew.
OK.
So now of course we can solve the sleuth's right just in the normal lexicographical order of Oldring
so Chapman CLI's Gilliam Idol Jones and Pailin.
But what if we want to sort based on the last element right of each name so I don't want to start by
the first character I want to sort by the last character.
Well that's pretty straightforward.
We can do again sort of the L key now he's going to be something we're going again going to find a function
that's going to take each string and just return to the last character.
So we're going to take a string s and we're going to return the last character.
So if we solve this way you'll notice that now we have Klees idols so e e m and n and s.
So that's definitely saw that in ascending order based on the last element.
The last character of each string.
Now what about the the.
Basically here we had e an e.
Why does CLI's come before Idol.
Well it kind of makes sense see came before I.
So maybe that's what's going on.
But look here we have and we have Pailin and we have Chapman and and are both the same but P comes before.
See if we look at the fourth character.
Right.
And I certainly doesn't come before.
So it's not using the second last character either.
What's going on while solving in Python the way they've implemented the sort it's called a stable sort
which means that if you have kind of an equal right to things are actually equal not one is not greater
than the other.
Like for example Pailin and CHAPMAN It will retain the older in which they were specified originally
in the list that you're trying to sort.
So this is why CLI's came before Idol because we had actually defined CLI's before Idol in this list
over here.
On the other hand Pailin and Chapman while there again equal and again Pailin was defined before Chapman.
Hence it comes before Chapman.
So just to show you I'm going to take the same list again place the down here but instead of putting
CLI's before Idol I'm going to put Idol and then clean.
OK.
So this is our list now.
And I'm just going to rerun the salt and now you'll see that idol now comes before Klees.
And that's because in terms of the sword.
ALDRIN because we only using the last character that equal and because it's a stable sort.
It retains that order.
It's just an interesting side note on the sort of method in Python.
So this is a typical example of how you might use lambda expressions.
Right.
The very handy.
You don't have to go out and find a separate function using death.
You could just in line centrally.
And these are short you know very simple to understand functions that makes sense to use in this kind
of context.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.